# 3: Streamlining of Input Processing

**Status:** Under consideration; awaiting the decision whether to incorporate Matthew Caballero's TUI into the main branch and then plan from there.

## Context/Forces at Play

After the completion of ADR-002a, it became clear to Trevor Hafner that there was still some more to be desired regarding the way that the input processing subsystem is configured.
Prior to the implementation of the ADR, the input processing is done mostly in the `InputFilter` class with the value conversion being performed by the `Rover` class.
Moving the small amount of input processing in the `Rover` class would implement the separation of concerns and consolidate all of the input processing from the command line into one place.
This would further simplify the process for adding additional input methods in the future, if and when this would be considered.
Prior to the implementation of this design decision, it is a good idea to look at Matthew Caballero's code with a more extensive TUI and see whether the project could benefit from using that interface over the one currently on the main branch. This decision may need to be modified to match Matthew's TUI if the archiecture is different from the current implementation on the main branch.

## Decision 

The constructor for the `Rover` class is to be reconfigured to only take a single Position object, marking its current position.
Similar changes are to also to be made to the `Plateau` when defining the size of the `Plateau` (The instantiation of the maximum x and y values should be done only in the constructor, as is now done in the `Rover` class).
To match these changes, the `InputFilter` class would be restructured to use regular expressions as a means of extracting the required information from each line.
When receiving information about the specific moves that the rover is doing, the `InputFilter` class should then imperatively tell the rover what to do (move, turn left, or turn right).
The `Main` class would also be removed and have all of its functionality moved to the `InputFilter` class (both classes function to recieve and interpret information from the user and then react accordingly to the information.)
Instead of using an "x" to indicate the end of the sequence of commands, the end of character sequence would be used (control-d) (this behavior is natively supported by Java's built-in `Scanner` class).
The `Rover` also currently has a state variable that keeps track of whether it is at the final command, though as the InputFilter iterates through the lines coming in from the input, this could be reliably done there using control flow (break statements to exit the loop early if an invalid input is received, for example).

## Consequences

The conseequences of this change is a much cleaner and simpler implementation of the input processing where it is all centralized in one place: the `InputFilter` class. 
This will make it more trivial to add more complicated commands to the Terminal User Interface or add other types of user interfaces to interact with the Rover by only requiring modification of the code that is directly related to the user interface (such as the `InputFilter` class).
The likelihood of errors is also expected to be reduced since there is a more structured approach that uses the compiler to ensure that the `Rover` and `Plateau` classes are always receiving the correct amount of information, since this information does not need to be dynamic between individual executions of the program as an `ArrayList` permits.